Hagos,
welcome back.
So on the previous video,
we have seen how weaken declare variables.
And we've also seen a demonstration off the different variable data types.
We have also discussed the debate on the Internet between two groups of people where
actually one group are not a fan of variable declaration.
And they say it's not important to declare your variables in XlV B.
A and the other group say that variable declaration is an absolute must and that you must
declare each and every variable on your procedures.
So one of the ways that the second group,
the people who are saying that variable declaration is an absolute must one of the ways
that this group used to force themselves to declare variables is to actually right at the
top off a module option explicit.
And what option explicit does is that it forces variable declaration in that particular
module that you would write it in.
And that means that if any sir procedure or any macro in that particular module has a
variable that is not declared,
the macro will not run,
you've got an error.
So,
for example,
on this macro here that we created on the previous lesson where we demonstrated running a
macro without having variables declared.
And we've demonstrated that very in data type,
because here at the moment,
Bolivar is equal to Jack.
So this variable my var is not declared.
We haven't written the line of code that says dim.
I've are as whatever data type we want it to be.
So right now,
if I try to run this macro,
I will get a Knerr er variable not defined.
So this is what option explicit,
written at the top of the module.
Does it forces variable declaration.
And if any variable is not declared,
the marker will not run on.
Please note that he needs to be written at the top of the module.
It cannot be written inside.
A certain sir procedure,
for example,
needs to be written outside of also procedures and at the top of the module.
And please note as well that if I declare my var as variant,
the module will run.
Okay,
so run absolutely fine as long as you declare as something even if it's as variant.
But if you don't declare it at all,
that's when you get an error.
Another thing that the second group of people do to force variable declaration is that they
would have each and every module that they would create,
having option explicit on it.
So right now,
I have written option explicit right now.
But if I create a new module option,
explicit will not be written.
So if I want option explicit to be written at the top of each and every module that I
create,
what I need to do is to go to the Tools menu here at the top and then go to options and
then here,
under the editor top Aiken check.
Require variable declaration and click OK,
and now,
from that point,
each and every module the I create will have option explicit written at the top.
But if a module has already created,
it wants so here module to was already created,
it doesn't have option explicit at the top,
but if I create a new module,
it will have option explicit.
I'm personally not a fan off doing require variable declaration because sometimes I might
just write a short macro that I would even use ones so I would not declare the variables.
It's just something short that I just want to do quickly,
and I just saved myself some keystrokes and I just don't declare the variables and it just
do it that way.
That is not the best thing to do,
but this is what I personally do.
But usually I do declare my variables.
But sometimes if I just want to do something quickly,
I just write a macro like that without declaring the variables and it just do it.
Okay,
But it's really a personal thing if you want to be forced to declare variables each and
every time than just go to tools.
Options check record Variable Declaration.
Click OK on your set to go guy.
So it's a personal thing,
really,
and a difference between one V.
B.
A developer and another.
Okay,
so ah,
thank you guys for watching this video and I'll see on the next one